know I've had an illness, but I'm getting along all right. There's a little tumor here in the brain,
which the doctors are treating, and whatever comes one way or the other, but it has been
wonderful to work with you all these years, and I enjoy the tremendously, and I'm very
grateful to you all that I could come to this meeting. Like CT Russell before him,
Brother Noor had an exceptional gift for organizing the Kingdom work. That set the stage for the
amazing growth that the organization experienced during the closing decades of the 20th century.
Nathan Noor died on June 8, 1977. Note what Brother Albert Schroeder, a fellow member of the
Governor Body, wrote about him. As the society's principal administrator, there have come to be over 90
branches. Brother Noor has proved to be the right, theocratic entrepreneur for this period of
Jehovah's Kingdom work. Brother Noor helped to clarify the role of the governing body and its
committees. Headquarters representatives were sent out to various branches. Branches were better
organized. Bodies of elders were appointed in various congregations. Training programs were
instituted. Schools were established. Due to the organizational growth, the number of
conventions being held worldwide, now numbered into the hundreds. And the governing body members
wanted to be present at as many of those conventions as possible. For example, at the 1969 Peace
on Earth International Convention, a governing body member would fly to the convention city for
the opening day, catch a flight to another convention city, and then return to the original city so
that he could speak on the closing day. In the 1970s and 80s, many existing branches with printing
and shipping capabilities needed to expand. To ensure that the worldwide supply of spiritual food
would flow uninterrupted, no matter what may happen on the world scene. At times there were more
than 20 branch construction or expansion projects going on simultaneously. And the governing
body was very interested in each one and eager to dedicate the new facilities once completed.
For me, it was always very encouraging to have contact to the brothers of the governing body,
to see their great zeal and their loving interest in the brothers behind the iron curtain.
1977, something outstanding happened. In 1977, it was possible for brothers Jerez,
friends, and Siddlik to visit the brothers in Poland. So it was the first time, the first time
that members of the governing body could visit the country behind the iron curtain.
They spoke to many overseers, pioneers, and long-time witnesses that was, of course, a wonderful
experience. One year after this visit, brothers Jerez, along with Brother Henshel, were able to get
an appointment with government officials to promote a more tolerant attitude of Jehovah's
organization and the work that Jehovah's Witnesses were doing in Eastern Europe, and especially
in Poland. Now mind you, this was all taking place some 10 years prior to the fall of communism
in Eastern Europe. They took various steps to meet with the local brothers in person,
and Brother Barry of the governing body had the opportunity to hold a secret meeting in the
city of Leningrad with Brother Kose, who was responsible for the activity in the territory. Brother Kose
said that he received tremendous encouragement from that discussion, from the conversation with Brother
Barry. And it was interesting that it wasn't until after that meeting that Brother Kose found out
that he had been talking to a member of the governing body. The brothers in Eastern Europe really
needed help to resist decades of satanic efforts to destroy their fate in Jehovah, and weaken the
unity and confidence in his organization. And the members of the governing body showed a very
deep appreciation for the brothers who kept the communication to the brothers behind the iron
curtain, because you have to imagine how to get the spiritual food there. They had to be willing
on a personal risk to visit and to bring the spiritual food towards there, not just to the
countries right close, but down there to the brothers down there to Siberia.
In the second half of the 1980s, the iron curtain began to open up. There was a sense of freedom in
the air. The brothers in Eastern Europe could feel that freedom. As the government's
granted permission, the governing body organized conventions in Eastern Black countries, for example,
in Poland and Czechoslovakia. And when bands were lifted, the members of the governing body
travelled many times, then in all the countries, it was possible, Poland, Hungary, Romania, Czechoslovakia,
Russia, Ukraine, and to the Baltic States, and also to Belarus.
In November 1989, the Berlin Wall came down. Well, this was a great turning point in the history
of the 20th century, but it also meant greater freedom for our brothers. The governing body
sprung into action. They wanted to go and accelerate the work there, so brother-gerus,
as well as other members of the governing body, closely supervised the work. Therefore,
the number of visits they made, well, they just skyrocketed. In the fall of 1989,
brothers Milton Henshel and Theodor Gerus had the unique opportunity of visiting the brothers
in the Soviet Union for the first time. The brothers really wanted to study the situation on the ground.
They met with all of the elders, circuit overseers, district overseers, and members of the country
committee. It was like one big shepherding visit. So, it's on Europe. 1991 was the stage for three
international conventions, with the subject lovers of godly freedom, but of course, besides these
international conventions, other open conventions. So, not in secret. No, open conventions were
held in the first time in the former Soviet Union, in Estonia, in Russia, and the Ukraine.
Just imagine, after decades of such difficult persecution, we experience the opportunity to be
together with our worldwide brotherhood, and to see the brothers from the governing body.
It was an unforgettable time. It was the happiest of times. It was super.
One outstanding convention was held in Zagreb. Yes, it was a loving and a courageous decision
of the governing body. To go there, despite the uncertainty of the political situation in the
country, and to maybe coming up a civil war. This convention was the only public event that was
allowed by the government in the city of Zagreb. All other public events were cancelled, but the
convention of Jehovah's Witnesses was not. Police men and soldiers signed to keep security in
order in the stadium. They were astonished that Serbian, Kuwait's, Slovenians, Montenegro's, Bosnians
were sitting together in peace and in unity. At those international conventions in Eastern Europe,
members of the governing body gave the final motivating talk. And those talks, given less than
five months after the thrill of obtaining legal recognition for our work in the Soviet Union,
strengthened and encouraged our brothers for trials they would face in the future.
It's plain to see that the governing body of years passed,
expanded themselves to no well the appearance of the flock. They poured themselves out like a drink
in order to take good care of the sheep. The same deep love and tender concern for you,
the sheep of the Great Shepherd's flock has been evident throughout modern times right down to this day.